# Fixing software with spoons

I once had a dream where I solved a super hard problem that I had been facing for about a month. The problem was seriously challenging and it was constantly hanging over my head drilling holes in my subconscious so it was not unusual that I would have a dream about it. In fact I had many dreams but this was the first time I'd "solved" it in the dream; usually the dream was knowing that the problem existed but I had to solve an equally as hard problem like naming something or caching before I could get to it. 

Like most dreams the solution eluded me and I decided to place my tablet next to my bed so that when I did get the dream again I could capture it. I mean this thing was chewing me up, I had burned through so much time and Internet spelunking that I was willing to attempt the brain Hail Mary and trap my subconscious. 

I had the dream again and with delight I opened my eyes and attempted to cast a root on it. I turned on my tablet, almost missed my pass code 3 times (if I'd missed it the 3rd time I would've resorted to paper - I was that desperate), opened up my email and began drafting what was going to. E the most epic solution - quite possibly would even cure all disease and world hunger. I finished and I mashed send and passed back out, elated that it was finished. 

The next day I woke expectantly to an inbox of joy, there it was the message I sent myself. Incidentally if you have a propensity to solve hard problems using dreams and care to jot them down, may I suggest you not use email. Miraculously I received my email, but I can imagine that a sleep induced message to some unsuspecting recipient could be bad for you and possibly for your carrier. But let me not tip my hand just yet, as River Song would say "careful, no spoilers."

I had inadvertently added folks to the To and combined with auto correct hijinks and an obvious sleep deprived conscious I had the makings for an email sent from the Benny Hill of the Matrix. Interwoven with code there were double entendres and unfortunate adjectives sprinkled about. It was a veritable cornucopia of embarrassment. Oh and absolute shocker, it did not solve the problem. 

When I got to work, where I spent most of the day avoiding HR, a few of the folks had passed the email around and were getting some enjoyment from it. While I was eating my humble pie someone asked me, "so what's the problem you've been working on?"  With an expectant sigh I showed him the thing that had captives my attention and dreams. To which he replied, "oh yeah I've seen this before."  My initial thought was "impossible," who would keep the solution to world hunger and my software problem to themselves! Additionally, I never got to enjoy an embarrassing email from him; clearly something was off. 

As he took me through the solution I realized a few things:

1. The answer was literally feet away 
2. I should never send sleep induced emails
3. No one asked me to try to solve this on my own, ever

In the middle of the night you always seem to have the best ideas but when you wake up you realize you were trying to fix your software with spoons.



